All right in this video
we are gonna go in and refactor the ImageService
to utilize reactive types
and be reactive all the way up to this Controller.
Now one thing that we're gonna have to deal with
at a future point, when we switch over
to using a more reactive type controller.
I wanna show you this.
I'm gonna come in here to the MultipartFile.
In this Multipartfile, you can see that
this is actually in part of the HttpServletRequest,
so this guy is probably gonna change
when we get into dealing with the view later
and getting into a non-blocking web container
because we are still using the ServletRequest
and this is a component that's tied to the ServletRequest,
so this is probably gonna change coming up
but I wanted to alert you to that,
because we will be seeing that in the whole next section
of this course, but for right now,
we are going to try to get non-blocking up to here,
So what we need to do is come in to the ImageService,
and we already did the RecipeService,
so we're gonna go into the ImageService,
and let's go ahead and take a look at making this reactive.
So what we wanna do is
obviously get rid of that transactional
because MongoDB is not transactional,
so we no longer, definitely no longer need that,
and here we wanna change this
to using the ReactiveRespository.
So I'm gonna refactor that, and we'll grab this.
Got to do a poor man's refactoring here.
Tried IntelliJ's, it's refactoring for this
isn't all that great.
So now we've converted the types over,
so this will be happy,
and clean this up a little bit,
we can get rid of that space.
So now we're gonna save an ImageFile,
and we actually wanna return back a Mono void on this.
So that is a reactive type that we wanna return,
back, so you can see that it's coming back
in that publisher Mono, which is exactly what we want.
So now, we have the wrong type here,
so we wanna change that, and that is going to,
you can see that IntelliJ refactored,
the interface to return back that void.
So, now we got that done,
and let's take a quick look at this,
and I'm gonna pause this because I think we can refactor it.
So let me pause this,
and I'm gonna refactor this whole section of code here
and make it all reactive.
Okay, I refactored things to be a little more reactive,
and to utilize the streaming there, and you can see
on line 30, I took the reactiveRepository,
I'm doing a findById, and then I map,
I'm using the map function there,
and effectively what we're doing is,
we're gonna pull that out
and ask it to save a new byte array
and we're basically taking that recipe object out
of the database and we're enhancing it
with the ImageFile that has been pushed in.
So here we're doing the same byte array stuff.
You can see in the commented code that I have below,
that we take the byte array and we update it,
and then we wanna save it back,
and at this point, you can see there on line 50,
now we're doing all the same stuff above it,
but about on line 50 is where I take the recipeMono
and this is just trying a few things out here with it.
So we're doing a findById, that's gonna return back
a recipeMono.
We bring it down here, but then we do a publish.
So that publishes out that recipeMono, goes into here,
and now we're gonna take that, and we're gonna block on it,
and send it to the save, and our option here
is that we changed the return type to use a Mono void,
and then we do the same thing here,
that returns back a Mono void for us.
So that's that method there,
I am gonna get rid of this code here
so we don't have that, get rid of that,
then one more delete,
then I'm doing Opt + Cmd + L, that does a reformat,
cleans things up a little bit, and let's go ahead
and run our test, and then we're gonna explode
on a couple things.
So actually we can take a look
at the ImageController right now.
Yeah, the recipeService, findCommandById,
and that of course, we wanna do a block,
and now we have a reactive type there.
Let's see here, recipeService again here,
we're already doing the block there, so we are good,
saveImagefile, so this doesn't check
so now we're returning back that, but again,
we probably wanna do a block on that.
So just in case that, so you remember, until you do a,
some type of blocking operation or something to trigger
that somethings looking for the result,
that publisher isn't going to react
until there's a subscriber asking for it.
So that's a really core point
inside of reactive programming.
So I've done the changes there.
Let's go ahead and run our test,
and of course, I'm expecting
a few incompatible types though,
we are coming in here, so we need to change this.
Change a name there, also here,
and now we're no longer doing that Optional.
We're gonna do a Mono.just(recipe), just like the others.
Change that, ArgumentCaptor,
that should work.
Let's try that one more time, run our test,
and we did have one fail there, and actually two,
so, get image from post.
So we have a NullPointerException there,
and what's happening here is that we're doing the saveImage
but our controller test now is not doing that,
so what I need to do is, above this,
we'll do a when, double-check that,
we're doing a save, saveImagefile,
and that's on your service.
Remember, it's returning a Mono.empty there,
so we'll go ahead and do that,
and that should fix that one, and there's one more.
So we're asking it argumentCaptor.capture.
Okay, took a little closer look there
and dug into it a little further,
and one problem we had is we're doing the save function
and we are not returning the publisher
after the save method.
So remember, the reactiveRespository's will return back
a publisher so that would return back a Mono Publisher
on the save method, and the other thing was,
I refactored this just a little bit.
I had this extending out of publisher and then doing this,
but now, what I'm doing is I'm getting this recipeMono,
I'm saying block here, and then block again
to trigger the save method.
It's not the cleanest implementation I'd like
but I think, when we get into testing this further,
we are going to completely refactor this
in an upcoming video, so this type is gonna go away,
so we'll get more into reactive,
but just kind of dabbling with this,
showing you some different examples,
of how we can utilize this reactive programming.
So now let's go ahead and run all our tests now,
I think I should have 'em all passing.
See all the tests are going okay, so that is looking good.
So let's go ahead and start the application;
make sure that is still happy,
and that is up and running, so let's go ahead
and take a look at it in Chrome.
There's my recipe, so let's go ahead and view it.
You can do a Change Image, Choose File,
and let's see here, gonna Submit that,
and we can see that's a meme I just used
on the recent video, the slide deck for this,
so the image persistence is still working correctly.
That is getting up into MongoDB as a byte array,
as we expected.
So our little refactoring here is complete,
and again, just wanna reiterate,
going into the service here,
this whole section we are probably gonna revamp that
because again, this Multipartfile,
that is a blocking file out of the Servlet library,
so that has a dependency on there, so when we switch over
to the web reactive stuff, this is going to change
and we'll refactor that
and make this look a little cleaner then.